---
title:  "Ubuntu 20.04 focal fossa now available"
published: true
permalink: 2021-07-02-focal.html
summary: "Ubuntu 20.04 now available for upgrade from 18.04"
tags: [news]
---

We finally managed to have a mature and stable installation of Ubuntu 20.04 therefore we can now announce that all users may upgrade their systems from now on. We currently do not force updates as 18.04 is still supported for more than a year. See the detailed information:

## How to upgrade

To carry out an update, you can use one of the following options.

* Use the self-service tool on your device [(Link)](./reinstall-os.html)
* Arrange an appointment with the Onsite or Ubuntu Team (See contact information at the bootom of this page.)

## Prerequisites / Actions on Ubuntu users

* It is **mandatory that you are connected to Daimler RD Network** with an Ethernet cable and not VPN / Wifi. The Ethernet-Connection must either be established with the onboard Ethernet card or with the **original Vendor Docking station (Dell/Lenovo)**.

* The update process will delete all data on your system (including home directory). Please **perform a backup** of your data to a mounted share or an external device before triggering the upgrade.

## Additional Information

* The process will take in total about 2 hours

* Please be aware we can't guarantee that any 3rd party software which is not certified and works with Ubuntu 18.04 is also functional with 20.04.

### Project specific

Athena Project has currently no general clearance for update as not all parts of the software runs/builds on 20.04. Nevertheless, you may upgrade if you like and are sure that your tasks work with 20.04.

## How to find help if you encounter any problems

### EUHD (To create a ticket and directly forward to Ubuntu Operations)

**Phone: [+49 7031 90 89000](tel:+4970319089000)**

**Mail: [uhd89000@daimler.com](mailto:uhd89000@daimler.com)**

### Ubuntu Operations Team

**Mail: [ubuntu-operations@daimler.com](ubuntu-operations@daimler.com)**

**MS Teams Support Channel (Free Subscription): [Click me](https://social.intra.corpintra.net/external-link.jspa?url=https%3A%2F%2Fteams.microsoft.com%2Fl%2Fchannel%2F19%253a98e89971b7044a56b696cdb9555f4fe5%2540thread.tacv2%2FUpgrade%252520Support%3FgroupId%3D13fe2da7-5cab-4525-9f67-b54eefb7a8ca%26tenantId%3D9652d7c2-1ccf-4940-8151-4a92bd474ed0)**

{% include links.html %}
