---
title:  "Ubuntu 22.04 Jammy Jellyfish now available"
published: true
permalink: 2022-11-03-jammy.html
summary: "Ubuntu 22.04 now available"
tags: [news]
---

The following summarizes some of the most important changes in comparison to earlier releases. For a full list of changes, please consult the upstream [release notes](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/jammy-jellyfish-release-notes/24668) and the [release notes](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/jammy-jellyfish-point-release-changes/29835) of the current point release.


As with every new release, besides bringing a lot of new features, some major features were also deprecated. Please read the following list of breaking changes and the above-mentioned release notes carefully before considering an install, especially if you are relying on software not directly shipped by Ubuntu and/or the RD Ubuntu Operations Team.

## Important differences in regard to upstream Ubuntu images:

### Snapd and snaps

*Snapd* and therefore snaps in general currently are not (yet) supported in Mercedes-Benz RD ubuntu images. E.g., for Firefox, we are shipping regular .deb packages. We are currently investigating if we can enable snaps with a future update during the Jammy release cycle, so stay tuned for further announcements in regard to this.

## Noteworthy changes to Mercedes-Benz related packages/services and changes that might affect you

### Vanilla Flavors

Starting with Ubuntu Jammy, Ubuntu Operations Team introduces vanilla-flavors as an option during installation. While the default installation is pulling in both GNOME and KDE packages, vanilla-flavors will enable more choices in regard to packages that are going to be installed by default.

Currently the following flavors are available:

- default: The default installation with KDE/Plasma and GNOME packages as known from prior releases
- vanilla-kde: Vanilla KDE/Plasma Desktop environment
- vanilla-gnome: Vanilla GNOME environment
- vanilla-ubuntu: A minimal GNOME based Desktop Environment with ubuntu specific additions

In addition to the above mentioned, we also released a minimal 'vanilla' flavor without any Desktop Manager nor Desktop Environment preinstalled. This CLI only version gives you the most freedom of choice in regard to preinstalled packages. It is the perfect baseline for lightweight systems based on i3 or sway, but note that for this setup we will provide only limited support. It is possible to switch from a plain vanilla flavor to every other flavor without the need to reinstall the system, but not from a desktop-environment-based flavor back to plain vanilla

### Changes to browser packages

*Google Chrome* is now installed by default on every installation but the plain vanilla (CLI-only) one.

*Firefox* and *Firefox-ESR* are available as regular .deb packages, with *Firefox* getting installed beside Google Chrome on non-vanilla installs.

Aditionally, *MS Edge* browser also is available.

*Chromium* browser will no longer be shipped as a .deb package by Ubuntu Operations Team, hence until snapd can be enabled, this browser will no longer be available in Mercedes-Benz environment.  (This currently *breaks* Kiosk systems. We are aware of this and working on a fix.)

### custom-jammy repository

Packages built by the Ubuntu Operations Team are now all located in a separate [custom repository](http://ubunturepo.rd.corpintra.net/mirrors/custom-jammy/). If you encounter a bug in one of the packages provided by this repository, please contact [Ubuntu Operations Team](mailto:ubuntu-operations@mercedes-benz.com).

While the custom repository already was added to Focal as well, Jammy is the first release where the packages built by Ubuntu Operations Team are completely separated from the ones built by other parties.

### Green VPN not supported on Jammy

There is no support from Ubuntu Operations Team for *GreenVPN* on Ubuntu Jammy, as the solution is deprecated in favour of *ZScaler* and will be sundowned within the next few weeks. *AlwaysOn* keeps being supported until *ZScaler* is fully rolled out in the environment.

### ROS1 packages from www.ros.org no longer available for Ubuntu Jammy

Starting with Ubuntu Jammy, the ROS project decided to no longer provide packages for *ROS1* as they encourage users to switch to *ROS2*. As ROS2 is not a simple update, but includes major changes to the environment, currently *no* ROS packages from [ros.org](https://www.ros.org) are available for Jammy on the Ubunturd repo server.

In case you/your project are interested in *ROS2* packages for Jammy, please contact [Ubuntu Operations Team](mailto:ubuntu-operations@mercedes-benz.com).

### No python2.7 packages anymore

While being out of upstream support already since January 1st 2020, Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal) still provided 2.7.x packages for python. This is no longer the case for Jammy. There is and there will be no supported way to run python2.7 on Ubuntu Jammy.

### Toolchain Upgrades

- GCC was updated to the 11.2.0 release, binutils to 2.38, and glibc to 2.35.
- Python now ships at version 3.10.4
- Perl ships at version 5.34.0.
- LLVM now defaults to version 14.
- golang defaults to version 1.18.x.
- rustc defaults to version 1.58.
- In addition to OpenJDK 11, OpenJDK 18 is now provided (but not used for package builds).
- Ruby was updated from v2.7.4 to v3.0.

### OpenSSL 3.0

Ubuntu upstream upgraded the OpenSSL library to the new 3.0 version, which disables a lot of legacy algorithms by default, as detailed in upstream OpenSSL's [migration guide](https://www.openssl.org/docs/manmaster/man7/migration_guide.html). **In particular, certificates using SHA1 or MD5 as hash algorithms are now invalid under the default security level.**

In addition to the upstream deprecations, please note that since Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal Fossa), the security level 2 (which is the default) disables the (D)TLS protocols below 1.2 (included).

Since the new version has an ABI bump, **third-party packages that depend on libssl1.1 will need to be rebuilt to instead depend on libssl3**, as the older ABI isn’t provided anymore.

### UDP disabled for NFS mounts

Since Ubuntu 20.10 (“Groovy Gorilla”), the kernel option CONFIG_NFS_DISABLE_UDP_SUPPORT=y is set and this disables using UDP as the transport for NFS mounts, regardless of NFS version.

### Security Improvements

*nftables* is now the default backend for the firewall. All applications on the system must agree on whether they will use the legacy *xtables* backend or the newer *nftables* backend. [Bug 1968608](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1968608) provides some context that may be helpful.

*ssh-rsa* is now disabled by default in OpenSSH.

### Changes to database packages

- PostgreSQL has been updated to version 14.2.
- MySQL has been updated to version 8.0.28.

## How to upgrade

To carry out an update, you can use one of the following options.

* Use the self-service tool on your device by exicuting *reinstall-os.sh*. The script is located under /usr/local/bin/reinstall-os.sh
* Arrange an appointment with the Onsite or Ubuntu Team (See contact information at the bottom of this page.)

## Prerequisites / Actions on Ubuntu users willing to upgrade

* It is **mandatory that you are connected to Mercedes-Benz RD Network** with an Ethernet cable and not VPN / Wifi. The Ethernet-Connection must either be established with the onboard Ethernet card or with the **original Vendor Docking station (Dell/Lenovo)**.

* The update process **will delete all data on your system (including home directory)**. Please **perform a backup** of your data to a mounted share or an external device before triggering the upgrade.

## Additional Information

* The process will take about 2 hours in total

* Please be aware that we can't guarantee any 3rd party software which is not certified and works with Ubuntu 18.04 or 20.04 is also functional with Ubuntu 22.04.

## How to find help if you encounter any problems

### EUHD (To create a ticket and directly forward to Ubuntu Operations)

**Phone: [+49 7031 90 89000](tel:+4970319089000)**

**Mail: [uhd89000@mercedes-benz.com](mailto:uhd89000@mercedes-benz.com)**

### Ubuntu Operations Team

**Mail: [ubuntu-operations@mercedes-benz.com](ubuntu-operations@mercedes-benz.com)**

**MS Teams Support Channel (Free Subscription): [Click me](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/channel/19%3a98e89971b7044a56b696cdb9555f4fe5%40thread.tacv2/Upgrade%2520Support?groupId=13fe2da7-5cab-4525-9f67-b54eefb7a8ca&tenantId=9652d7c2-1ccf-4940-8151-4a92bd474ed00)**

{% include links.html %}
