---
title:  "No more Proxy --> new VPN"
published: true
permalink: 2021-07-02-focal.html
summary: "There is now a vpn solution available, that does not require proxys anymore and is really fast compared to AlwaysON"
tags: [news]
---

Today I want to announce that ISO Office RD now gave the clearance for an interim VPN solution which removes the proxy burden from you as SW developers. At least when working from home / using guest wifi.

We now have a VPN Solution prepared which is still in a PoC phase but available to anybody in RD with an Ubuntu machine. This also gives a massive increase in VPN performance as we're not required to use the limited AlwaysOn environment anymore.

To get started you should first request [DL VPN Connection Green2GO (QEV111AARCUN)](https://social.cloud.corpintra.net/external-link.jspa?url=https%3A%2F%2Fitshop.app.corpintra.net%2Fitshop%2Fshop%2Fservices%2Fdetail%2F25979240) in IT-Shop.

Afterwards you will receive logon credentials by ISO Office RD which then can be used to setup the connection with the tools ans howto available on MB GitHub: [https://git.daimler.com/Ubuntu-Tools/green](https://git.daimler.com/Ubuntu-Tools/green)  (Contributions are welcome)

Please be aware that this solution is an interim solution until there is a new global solution available. Operations and support is done without guaranteed service times and with a best effort approach. (Only single persons maintain this besides their regular work) --> if something breaks you might need to do a fallback to AlwaysOn.

We finally managed to have a mature and stable installation of Ubuntu 20.04 therefore we can now announce that all users may upgrade their systems from now on. We currently do not force updates as 18.04 is still supported for more than a year. See the detailed information:

{% include links.html %}
